# Lab Report: Assemblage

#### Andres Gorbea

## Process Description
From arrival to the classroom, magazines were scattered around the table.  We were asked to pay attention to a librarian who thoroughly explained to us how to correctly fold a normal sized paper (8x11in) into an eight ‘page’ pamphlet.  Also, a paper in the same folded structure was handed to us with complete instructions for folding in the same manner as the pamphlet was.  Once the paper was folded, we were told to commence creatively decorating the zine with our vision of what we wanted the zine to become.  I began cutting and picking images from The New Yorker which I felt resonated with the zine’s theme I was creating, cut, then pasted these severed images onto my blank creation.  Once I finished my zine, I gave a brief synopsis of my vision for the zine and then brought it to my dorm.  

## Observations
Once I saw the magazines, I knew we were going to be making a zine or at least a form of erasure poetry.  Thankfully, it was the former.  I felt intrigued by zines, as I had never worked with one, or even known existence of such work before the readings assigned.  I felt curious about zines because of the informality and unpredictability of them.  I wondered what my classmates would make in comparison to mine, if they would make their zine class appropriate or delve into the complexity of abstract sentiment and art.  

After contemplating and debating on what the subject and themes could be for my zine, I decided to go with my instinct, cut whatever struck emotion or curiosity in myself and gather the images in the end to determine which images would go in my zine.  After cutting and gathering many abstract images, as well as concrete interests I indulge myself in, I decided to pick out congruent images that could work together.  I began to visualize what the purpose of my zine was and realized that even though some images were picked out for their quality of being memorable and others resembled my interests, the images complimented each other in an eloquent way making the zine appear sensical and beautiful from my perspective.

## Analysis
From Pagan’s adventures in the pursuit of happiness and the discovery of it through zines made me curious of the effect such a work may have on me.  Observing how Pagan freed herself from conventional English in order to find passion and her voice in zines made me think what the benefits would be if I made a zine.  Once we were instructed to begin our zine, I wondered if I should ignore the images from the magazines and write an honest letter like the one Pagan wrote to Andy on one of her zines, in order to see if I could subconsciously free repressed thoughts by freeing myself from normal writing structure and use of language when making the zine.  

Erasure poetry also serves a similar function, to reveal a message hidden within a formal work.  Zines abandon conventional structure and writing in order to achieve true meaning and authenticity in the work one puts out.  There is an interesting parallel between zines and erasure poetry, as both follow unorthodox structure in hopes of achieving reaction from the reader and uniqueness from the author.  

Following the zine code of ethics, zines are acquired in different methods.  In this case, all of the zines created in class were created by the authors but not necessarily all of the authors still have the zine.  For example, a classmate of mine was going to gift her zine to her roommates, whereas I have held on to my zine as a souvenir of the work done in class.  Other classmates could have gifted theirs to their parents in hopes of recognition or a specific purpose, others could have thrown it in the trash.  This notion highlights the movable nature of a zine, recognizing that there is an author, but there could be an intended audience, as well as there could be no intended audience at all, or even all audiences are intended.  A zine is what the author makes it, which is one of the most flexible and enjoyable aspects of the zine.  

